All right.
In the last section, we have completed the.
Result designing for the image part.
In this section, we're going to work on the pagination section of our project.
We want to create a button, two buttons on the bottom next and previews, which is going to change
the URL and adds a parameter called a start.
And based on that parameter, we're going to fetch different results from Google API.
So first thing first, I want to just create the UI.
So just create the next and previous button and then we want to work on the fetching part.
But in order to not get the.
The error of two many requests, again, from the Google API.
I'm going to just temporary go to that web and just uh.
Make an API.
Just change the API key.
Or you can change the URL to get an error.
So for example, I just add Q at the end of this one, and also for the image, I'm going to add a Q
here so we can remember that we are getting an error for fetching.
So we are not going to fetch data as an exhaust our API key.
So if you know, for example, refresh the page after 10 seconds, you're going to get an error saying
something went wrong.
So now just wait for 10 seconds.
So as you can see, we get something went wrong, but we can fix it later when we need to show the results.
But for now, just work on the UI as we see in the final version we have next.
And when we click on next, we're going to see the another button called previous.
So.
We don't see the previous first, but when we have a number more than ten, which is 11.
Now we see the previews and then we can just use both of them.
So we need to create a component and this component is going to be client side as well, because it
has interactivity with the user by clicking on it.
There is a way to make it actually server side, but there's no point to just the two buttons.
It can be loaded later on when the page is loaded completely.
So we can make this for client side and we can add add the same component to both of the image and the
web.
So we can use this same component in the image part as well, which is here.
So we need to just create one component.
So we go to components and we create a new component and we can call this one pagination button buttons.
So we just say pan generation
buttons.
The G6.
So we can use RFC to create a React functional component.
I think pagination is wrong.
At generation.
Let's see.
What's the problem with that spelling suggestion?
Okay, it has, I hear.
So I'm going to fix this ball here and here and then also rename this one to pagination.
Okay.
All right.
So now we can add this component to both of them to web and image.
So we need to go back to image a results component.
Image search results.
And also, we want to put it inside the Web search result tool.
So inside the image search results, I'm going to add a div here at the end.
And inside that, I'm going to add this pagination buttons.
I'm going to import it from the components and the things I want to do.
I want to add some margin.
Left 16 to this death to bring this one a little bit on the right side.
And then for the Web search results, we're going to add this one as well.
But the Web search result is already have the margin left, so we don't need to add another div.
So we just need to add it at the end of this.
File just below.
Just above the closing div tag.
So we just add the pagination.
Buttons.
Let's close this and let's check that we have inside both of them.
We need to wait ten second until this one to be loaded.
And we can temporarily remove actually that waiting to.
So we don't actually see the component now here.
So let's go to the all.
Let me remove this weighting here, which is inside the page.
So I'm going to temporarily remove this weight.
So we're going to quickly see the result.
And then when we are creating the loading effect, I'm going to add it again.
So now even inside the web, we don't see the component.
Let's fix this API for the web.
I want to see if with results we can see this one or not.
So I'm going to refresh the page again.
So let's go to Image.
Oh, I fix it.
Sorry.
This is for image and for the web.
We need to fix it too.
So here we see the pagination buttons and inside the web.
Also we see the pagination buttons, so we cannot actually get the error.
Let me change the API key so we can test this on.
So without the API, we get the same error and we don't see the pagination.
Okay.
So we cannot do this way.
So.
So let's add this just the.
Ten second wait, and then we try to do it.
I try to.
If the too many requests happened, I'm going to stop the video.
That's fine.
Okay.
So let's create this.
Let's refresh the page.
Okay, let's bring this one to the left side so we can treat it, see the changes, and we just bring
the pagination buttons here.
I'm going to start working on the pagination.
We don't see it again.
Okay, so in the mobile size.
We need more padding at the bottom so we can see the pagination.
So inside the.
Let's hear.
Inside here I'm going to go to.
We're.
No, sorry.
You should go to the results.
The results?
If you remember, we have added a margin padding bottom of 24.
So that is not enough for the mobile size.
So for the mobile size, let's try a bigger numbers.
For example, 30.
Let's see what number they have.
32.
K still not enough.
36.
Q Let's refresh the page.
Okay, now we see the pagination buttons here.
Still not enough.
Let's increase this 36 to, for example.
40.
Okay, now we have enough space, but in the small size and above, we want to change the padding bottom
to the 24 again.
But that was enough.
Great.
And then let's let's just search for something that is not existed so we can just get.
And resolve not find.
And then we see that if we can easily see the pagination part.
So we don't see the pagination if we actually don't have the results.
Make it.
So that's a difficult part in my in my previous projects Google Clone.
With next year's 12, I have made a mark.
But here I decided to.
Don't do it.
But it was a mistake.
You.
You can create a mark.
And instead of the real results, you can create it.
If you want to know how to make a data mark.
You can check the previous version of the Google clone, which is available to you.
But it's okay.
Just let's now move on to the pagination and create it here.
So for the pagination, as I mentioned before, we need to create this one client client side.
So I'm going to make it use client.
We need to get some things from the URL, including the this path name search web.
And also we need to get the parameters to because we want to search based on the previous search.
And then when we click on the next, we just change the start one.
So we're going to get we're going to import.
I have two here.
We're going to import two things.
Use path name.
Which is coming from next navigation and also use search preps Use path name for getting the path name
and use search params for getting the parameters.
So two things we import here and then here we need to initialize the path name by just calling it path
name.
Equals to use pathway.
And also you want to initialize search path name.
And then we want to get.
Two things from the search path name, which is the first is the search term.
You get the search term.
Which is equal to search path named dot get search path search term and the other things you want to
get is the start index.
So you want to create a new parameters called a start index, or we can call it a start.
And if it's not existed, we want to make it equal to one, not zero.
We want to make it equal to one.
And then we want to call this one a start.
And the other things I want to do is to convert this one to number because we want to get it as a string,
but we want to use it in a mathematical equation.
So we need to change this one to number so it can be one 1121 and etc. or if it not existed, we want
to get it one.
All right.
So this is the things we want to do.
And also we want to get two icons, arrow left and Arrow right.
So as you can see from the final version.
So we want to get it from the React Icons package.
So we're going to search for an icon called Chevron Left and Chevron Right.
So we just say Chevron.
I don't know, I pronounce it correctly.
So this is a Chevron left and Chevron right.
This one I want to use.
So the left one, I copy it.
I'm going to import it at a top.
Which is going to be Chevron left.
And we can also import Chevron right from React icons for slash P's.
So we have two icons we can use inside our website.
Let's close this React icons and we bring our website again to the right side.
So let's add the icons and everything else inside this div and also we want to create.
The other things I want to do is to create a link tag.
So when we click on the icon, we're going to go there.
So let's see the errors first.
Very.
That's the problem.
Because I have deleted already.
Okay.
Let's refresh the page.
It's empty.
Div Now, now inside this empty div, we want to have two places, one for the left and one for the
right side.
But do you want to make a conditional?
We don't want to see the previous button.
When we just come to the page, we want to go to the next one.
And if the number of start in the URL is more than 11, we want to see the previous one so we can come
back.
So we're going to create a condition.
If the START index is more than ten and we want to create.
So let's close this one first.
So now in this condition, we want to add a link tag, which is coming from the next link.
Now, let's close this and inside the link tag, we're going to have the icons and etc..
For example, let me stop the server so we don't get an error.
While we are creating that.
So now inside this we want to have a dev which is going to include the icon, which is the bees chapter
and left.
And also we want to have a paragraph or a span saying previous.
So we don't need to.
We just create a paragraph saying.
Previews.
So let's.
So that is enough for this file folder.
The link we want to have the edge ref, which is going to be dynamic first.
Because we want to have the past name first.
By adding a dollar sign, we get the path name.
Path name is can be forward slash web slash, sorry forward slash search post slash web or forward slash
web.
A full sized, searchable slash image.
So it can be dynamic.
So based on that, we're going to go next or previous.
And then after that, we have the search term.
Which is going to be dynamic too, which is equal to that search term that we get from the F here,
from the search params that get search term.
So we've got this search term here as well.
After that, we're going to have another parameter which is going to be called a start and this is equal
to that.
Is start index that we get from the URL.
And because we are clicking on the previous pattern, we need to minus this one to from ten.
So we go back to the previous file.
For example, when we are in 11, when we click on the previous one, we go to what?
But if we are 21, we go to 11.
So this works like that.
And then we need to add some styling here.
So for example, the button, the icon, I want to make the height to be five.
And here we want to bring them next to each other, sorry, on top of each other using flags.
We use Flex column to bring them on top of each other.
We can use cursor to be pointer, so we see a pointing hand when we hover over these icons and we use
items center to bring them next to each other.
We're.
And sorry horizontally exactly nested and align with each other.
And also when we hover over it, we want to see underline to.
Okay, so.
And then we have some styling here at the top, which is going to be we change the text color to be
blue.
700.
This is going to be applied for the both previous and the next buttons.
We want to change the display, to flex, to bring them next to each other.
We change the padding in the x axis to ten padding in the bottom of four, and we just use justified
content between to add a space between them and also in the space in the small size and above, we want
to have the justified a start.
So at the bigger size we see them like the final version on the left side, but in the mobile size we
see them exactly in the center.
So here in my final version, I didn't fix the pattern, but they come in the center.
So I'm going to show you when we start the server again.
So let me complete this one first.
So now, in this small size and above, we want to have a space between them.
So we just added a space x 44.
And for the small size and above we add, we remove the padding in the x axis of this, set it to be
zero.
All right, So.
We have created for the previous button.
Let's copy this one and create the next button, which is very similar.
So I'm going to copy this.
Using all shift arrow done.
And here we're going to fix this.
So this is this one should be less or equal to 90.
So we don't want to go more than 100 results.
And then this one instead of minus should be plus.
And instead of using Chevrolet and left, we use Chevrolet and.
Right.
And instead of saying previous, we just say next.
Okay, so now let's start the server and see the our result.
So I'm going to use NPM run dev to start the server.
Let's wait for a while until then to get we need to stay 10 seconds for the results to come.
And now I think we can refresh the page.
Right.
So after 10 seconds, we can see the result here.
And we have the next button.
And then if we click on next, we're going to see
some changes here to just wait a few second.
Okay.
Now we see that a start is 11 and also we see the previous button in the mobile size.
There are exactly they are in the just we have a space between them.
The previous is on the left and the next is on the right.
But when we are over the small size, we see them just on the left side, which is for the justified
content, a start.
So we are changing this one and let's see it in action inside the image two.
So we go to image.
So.
Just wait for 10 seconds to be loaded because we have added it.
Again, I mentioned we have added some waiting.
So let's click on next.
Now we should see the start 11th here to.
Okay, now we see the previous pattern.
Let's go to the right side.
Okay.
In the image, we still need to add some padding.
So I'm going to go to image results.
Uh, should go to image search results, and we need to add some padding at a bottom like the one we
did here.
So for them, this one should be for the small size and above, but for the normal.
Uh, for the mobile size, we want to have some padding bottom.
I think it was for t we have added for the web.
So let's save this one and see the results in action.
Very.
So, okay, now we see that we have proper space in the mobile size here.
Okay, It's working.
Fine.
So now the things we want to do is to really get the results for the next results.
Now we are just changing the URL, nothing else, but we want to change the result for the Google search.
So we need to go to when we do the API request, we also need to
change the URL for the fetch.
So we go to.
So let's close everything.
We need to go to.
For example, MH page.
And also we want to get the start from the URL.
So inside the server side, we can get it using these search preamps.
All right.
So we don't need to just import use search params and then initialize it.
But in the server side is different in client size.
We did that one, but here we just can just tap to the search params and get this start index.
So here at a border at the top we just create a constant and we call it a start index which is going
to be equal to search params dot a start or it can be a one not zero.
And then here at the end we're going to add that a start.
Which is equal to a start index.
And we need to do the same things for the web as well.
So I'm going to copy this.
Go to Web dot G6 inside the page that is inside the Web.
And here at the top, I'm going to add that on here to.
And then we can add that one at the.
As start equals a start index.
All right.
So now let's see that we can get the result for the next, for example, in the MH first.
Are we already getting the next result, actually?
And then just pay attention for the first image.
Which is, uh, this one.
And if we click on next after ten second, which is waiting time for the fetch request after changing
this URL.
And the reason is very slow because we are in the development mode in the production mode.
This changing URL would be faster.
As you can see, the image is different, so we are getting a different result.
Let's test this one for the web as well.
So when we click on all, we go to the web result after 10 seconds, and then we're going to test the
next button.
So the first one is Taylor and Cars.com.
So when we click on next, we should get a different result at the top after ten second from.
So as you can see, we got the result for another website.
So it's working.
The pagination is working.
So okay, so let's stop this server and add everything to GitHub.
So I'm going to open the source controller using Contour Shift G and we add everything using this button,
and then we can create a message saying add pagination.
Component.
And we can just click on this icon and commit and push it to get up.
So now we can just go to our GitHub repository, We refresh the page and we can see the new commit.
And we have now 16 commits and the last one is add pagination component.
Let's review what we have done here.
So inside the image folder page is X, we have created a constant called a start index, which is going
to get the parameter search parameters start from the URL.
If it is not existed, we're going to make this constant to be one.
So we're going to fetch the first page.
And also we have modified the URL inside the API, which is a start equal to a start index, so it can
be one 1121 and etc. Inside the web folder page that we did the similar things, we got the 13 start
from the URL and also we modified this.
You are all based on that.
And finally, we have created.
So I have just add some padding at the bottom to fix the responsiveness of our website and see the pagination
in the mobile size by just adding a padding bottom of 40 instead of 24.
And we have created a pagination buttons components.
And this is a client side.
It can be a server side, but it doesn't matter because it's it's going to be loaded after the page
is completely loaded.
And you know how to make it a server side.
You just instead of using these folks from next navigations, you can just get all sorry you cannot
make it actually the server side and now I remember because this is a component you cannot get the use
the search params in next 30.
So this one that's why I made it.
Clients that are totally forget why I why I have decided to keep it client side so we cannot get the
search params from the.
Server side in the components.
We can just make get them in the pages, not in the components.
I don't know.
It's it's a feature which it's a rule of next 13 or it's a block because I couldn't figure figure out
how to get these parameters inside this component.
But it's fine.
We just make it client side and we get the use path name and use search, perhaps using next navigation.
But because we are using these folks, we cannot make them make this component server side.
We need to change it to clients.
Then we have initialized path name and search path and params and we got two parameters from the URL
search term and start index, which is coming from these parameters is start and search term.
We have converted this start one to number by adding a plus here, and if it's not existence, we're
going to set it to be one.
And we have created two parts here for the left and right or previous or next, which is going to be
a dynamic routing to the.
A start index minus one or start index plus minus ten or plus ten.
So this one is actually can be dynamic based on the image or web as well, because we are getting the
path name here as well.
All right.
And also in the Web search results, we have added the padding bottom of 40 to create a responsive.
Design and we have added the pagination buttons component here.
So that was it for creating the pagination for our project in the next section.
We're going to work on the loading effect.
We are going to use a new name of folder convention of next year 13, which is.
And loading the DJs, which can be exclusive for the image and the VIPs.
For example, if we click on Web, we see a different, different loading effect in the image.
We see a different design.
I'm going to show you how to create these loading effects using Tailwind CSS as well.
And so it can be very beautiful and the user's experience is seamless change inside our website.
So when we click on Image, we don't wait for a while and then we don't see any change.
All right.
So see you in the next section for the loading part of our project.